.TH "gdal_fillnodata" 1 "Mon Aug 26 2013" "GDAL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
gdal_fillnodata \- .TH "gdal_fillnodata" 1 "Mon Aug 26 2013" "GDAL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
gdal_fillnodata \- fill raster regions by interpolation from edges
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

gdal_fillnodata.py [-q] [-md max_distance] [-si smooth_iterations]
                [-o name=value] [-b band]
                srcfile [-nomask] [-mask filename] [-of format] [dstfile]
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The gdal_fillnodata.py script fills selection regions (usually nodata areas) by interpolating from valid pixels around the edges of the area.
.PP
Additional details on the algorithm are available in the GDALFillNodata() docs.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-q\fP:\fP" 1c
The script runs in quiet mode. The progress monitor is supressed and routine messages are not displayed.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-md\fP \fImax_distance\fP:\fP" 1c
The maximum distance (in pixels) that the algorithm will search out for values to interpolate.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-si\fP \fIsmooth_iterations\fP:\fP" 1c
The number of 3x3 average filter smoothing iterations to run after the interpolation to dampen artifacts. The default is zero smoothing iterations.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-o\fP \fIname=value\fP:\fP" 1c
Specify a special argument to the algorithm. Currently none are supported. 
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-b\fP \fIband\fP:\fP" 1c
The band to operate on, by default the first band is operated on. 
.PP
.IP "\fB\fIsrcfile\fP\fP" 1c
The source raster file used to identify target pixels. Only one band is used.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-nomask\fP:\fP" 1c
Do not use the default validity mask for the input band (such as nodata, or alpha masks). 
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-mask\fP \fIfilename\fP:\fP" 1c
Use the first band of the specified file as a validity mask (zero is invalid, non-zero is valid). 
.PP
.IP "\fB\fIdstfile\fP\fP" 1c
The new file to create with the interpolated result. If not provided, the source band is updated in place.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-of\fP \fIformat\fP:\fP" 1c
Select the output format. The default is GeoTIFF (GTiff). Use the short format name.
.PP
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Frank Warmerdam <warmerdam@pobox.com> 
