.TH "gdal_edit" 1 "Mon Aug 26 2013" "GDAL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
gdal_edit \- .TH "gdal_edit" 1 "Mon Aug 26 2013" "GDAL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
gdal_edit \- Edit in place various information of an existing GDAL dataset
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

gdal_edit [--help-general] [-a_srs srs_def] [-a_ullr ulx uly lrx lry]
          [-tr xres yres] [-unsetgt] [-a_nodata value]
          [-gcp pixel line easting northing [elevation]]*
          [-mo "META-TAG=VALUE"]*  datasetname
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The gdal_edit.py script can be used to allows to edit in place various information of an existing GDAL dataset (projection, geotransform, nodata, metadata).
.PP
It works only with raster formats that support update access to existing datasets. 
.IP "\fB\fB--help-general\fP:\fP" 1c
Gives a brief usage message for the generic GDAL commandline options and exit. 
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-a_srs\fP \fIsrs_def\fP:\fP" 1c
.PP
Defines the target coordinate system. This coordinate system will be written to the dataset.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-a_ullr\fP \fIulx uly lrx lry\fP:\fP" 1c
Assign/override the georeferenced bounds of the dataset.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-tr\fP xres yres :\fP" 1c
Set target resolution. The values must be expressed in georeferenced units. Both must be positive values.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-unsetgt\fP:\fP" 1c
Remove the georeference information.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-a_nodata\fP \fIvalue\fP:\fP" 1c
Assign a specified nodata value to output bands. Can be set to \fInone\fP to remove a nodata value if one exists for the dataset.
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-gcp\fP \fIpixel line easting northing [elevation]\fP:\fP" 1c
Add the indicated ground control point to the dataset. This option may be provided multiple times to provide a set of GCPs. 
.PP
.IP "\fB\fB-mo\fP \fI'META-TAG=VALUE'\fP:\fP" 1c
Passes a metadata key and value to set on the output dataset if possible.
.PP
.PP
.PP
-a_ullr, -tr and -unsetgt options are exclusive.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
.PP
.nf

gdal_edit -mo DATUM=WGS84 -mo PROJ=GEODETIC -a_ullr 7 47 8 46 test.ecw
.fi
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Even Rouault <even dot='' rouault='' at='' mines='' dash='' paris='' dot='' org>=''> 
