.TH "gdaltindex" 1 "Mon Aug 26 2013" "GDAL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
gdaltindex \- .TH "gdaltindex" 1 "Mon Aug 26 2013" "GDAL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
gdaltindex \- builds a shapefile as a raster tileindex
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

gdaltindex [-tileindex field_name] [-write_absolute_path] [-skip_different_projection] [-t_srs target_srs] index_file [gdal_file]*
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This program builds a shapefile with a record for each input raster file, an attribute containing the filename, and a polygon geometry outlining the raster. This output is suitable for use with \fCMapServer\fP as a raster tileindex.
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
The shapefile (index_file) will be created if it doesn't already exist, otherwise it will append to the existing file. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
The default tile index field is 'location'. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Raster filenames will be put in the file exactly as they are specified on the commandline unless the option -write_absolute_path is used. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
If -skip_different_projection is specified, only files with same projection ref as files already inserted in the tileindex will be inserted (unless t_srs is specified). 
.IP "\(bu" 2
If -t_srs is specified, geometries of input files will be transformed to the desired target coordinate reference system. Note that using this option generates files that are NOT compatible with MapServer. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Simple rectangular polygons are generated in the same coordinate reference system as the rasters, or in target reference system if the -t_srs option is used. 
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
.PP
.PP
.nf

gdaltindex doq_index.shp doq/*.tif
.fi
.PP
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Frank Warmerdam <warmerdam@pobox.com> 
